Len Santalucia: Hi everybody. Hope everybody's doing good.
Doing well.
Len Santalucia: Yeah.
Len Santalucia: Like forever.
Vincent Terrone: Hey line. Can you hear me.
John Mertic: I can hear you.
Vincent Terrone: Okay, good. That's good. It's also, can you hear me.
Vincent Terrone: Thank you. I just my Bluetooth bass down
No worries.
Vincent Terrone: Okay. How you doing,
Vincent Terrone: Doing well. Yeah.
Vincent Terrone: Yeah yeah
John Mertic: Winding down with summer here.
Vincent Terrone: Now, I just finished my I was teaching cobalt
Vincent Terrone: For like a mini session. And I just finished yesterday.
Vincent Terrone: Awesome I in five weeks. These kids wrote a Kobo well I mean they stole code from quote well but they did write something
Vincent Terrone: So,
Vincent Terrone: That was an accomplishment.
John Mertic: Yes, definitely. Did you use some of the training course materials.
Vincent Terrone: I use. So what I did was I use IBM cobalt class that they have for the slides because they actually had slides, but I use you guys for the lab. So all
Vincent Terrone: These labs every single lab that you guys had they did, I did a bit different orders, but they did all the labs and they use them.
Vincent Terrone: You know, the way you guys set it up with Visual Studio Code, which was phenomenal. Because if I had to teach him 30 to 70. I mean, you know, that's a, that's a few hours.
Vincent Terrone: Yeah, it was so easy. I mean, they all were hooked up within like you know like you know 1520 minutes. Everyone was working on it. So that was great. Yeah, it was really, really good awesome thing.
John Mertic: That's, that's great to hear. Yeah, that might be
John Mertic: Yeah, maybe at some point. If you're interested, you could probably even do some sort of like a blog post and just sort of talk about some of the experiences with
Vincent Terrone: Yeah, that'd be really I think I
John Mertic: would really appreciate it. Yeah.
Vincent Terrone: Yeah, well, I use the group. I mean like whenever I had a problem. I went on to the open mainframe cobalt and I talked to Newton. What's his name.
Vincent Terrone: Paul was great. So would you like our, our, our final projects, the system went down in in during mid day they did.
Vincent Terrone: Not like typing. So I will you send me back up. He's like, yep. So they had an issue where with some of the ideas. But other than that, I mean everything worked really well. Again, your laps are phenomenal. It just, you didn't have slides. So it kind of made it harder to to check over the Internet.
Vincent Terrone: But yeah, IBM was very nice they donated their slides me they teach they teach a class on YouTube. I don't know if you know that
Vincent Terrone: Jonathan
Vincent Terrone: That's what's
Vincent Terrone: Long
Len Santalucia: As the Washington System Center.
Len Santalucia: Yes, yes. JOHN
Len Santalucia: Jon Fitch.
Vincent Terrone: Yeah. Yes. Yeah. He gave me his slides that he teaches on YouTube of Cobo
Vincent Terrone: They have like a 24 hour lesson YouTube thing, but I must have taken about 12 lessons of theirs and all your labs and together. I made out a class. So let's go
John Mertic: That's awesome.
Vincent Terrone: Yeah.
John Mertic: Yeah, yeah. I mean, if you ever want to do some sort of a guest blog posts in the open need freedom project blog about the use of that we'd be we'd be delighted. I think that would be a great it'd be really great.
Vincent Terrone: Yeah, back BCC where I was teaching Bergen community college they offered everyone in that class, they were going to pay for admission to the open mainframe project.
John Mertic: Oh, awesome.
Vincent Terrone: Yeah, awesome.
Vincent Terrone: I didn't got someone that was doing biology.
Vincent Terrone: She wasn't even a programmer and she took the class.
John Mertic: I was kind of cool. I mean, I mean it's I think it's good for a lot of folks just have some cross discipline experience with languages like that like we see
John Mertic: Yeah, we see we see a ton of just an other technology areas will see, you know, biologists and you know different you know people in sciences that are really getting into like R and Python.
John Mertic: For a lot of their work, so it's it's it's not uncommon. And it's actually really cool that you're starting to see some of that.
Vincent Terrone: Yeah, yeah, yeah. And I also mixed in. Now the mainframe and it to like I gave you know some weeks I gave presentations on what the harder I look side with the software with zero SS and C. Me and Linux running on. I did like little things mixed in there also.
Vincent Terrone: Let me get some material together to teach them.
Vincent Terrone: How to there was a good class. I mean, again, it was a free class that they give to advanced students and I thought was pretty cool.
Vincent Terrone: It is amazing.
John Mertic: It is amazing. We're cool. Um, I think we're starting to get a little bit of a quorum here. I know I'm
John Mertic: You sent her regrets. Um, I think she added something in the post. You know, one of the issues I saw, excuse me, I saw. Um, I don't know if I see Phil telly on the phone.
John Mertic: I don't see Greg McKinnon, I don't know if anybody from who's from Broadcom knows if he's available currently or not, or if there's any other broad converse on the phone. I didn't see any names that stand out to me.
John Mertic: Um, and I do not see James caffery oh I just see, feel, popping in right now.
John Mertic: So we right at the edge of core up here. It looks like I'm
John Mertic: Yeah, we have for
John Mertic: For the, for the seats here. I don't think we have any voting matters day. So it's not a big deal.
John Mertic: But actually may potentially have one here.
John Mertic: Hey Phil. How's it going,
John Mertic: You feel you're working, you're
John Mertic: So way Phil's working at
John Mertic: Our audio. Oh, hey there you are.
phil tully: Double Double mute. Sorry.
John Mertic: Hey, that keeps you extra safe.
John Mertic: Um,
John Mertic: So let's get started. I'm just wondering. Today, if we have anybody who would want to step forward and take notes for today.
John Mertic: Here, anybody
John Mertic: Raising a hand here, it's nothing very complicated just sort of capturing some of the action items and things of that nature.
John Mertic: Nobody you've done in the last couple weeks. I don't want to push her last few meetings. I don't want to push on you.
John Mertic: Know if there's anyone else that hasn't done it. That would be willing to step up and
Give it a try.
Michael MacIsaac: Like a Thank you Mike.
John Mertic: Yeah, it does nothing has to be complicated. This
John Mertic: Isn't a warm piece just kind of capturing the points and things like that.
Michael MacIsaac: Okay, you can shoot it. Yeah, do you shoot them over.
John Mertic: Email or add them to the
John Mertic: GitHub issue afterwards that might be actually the easiest. I'll put the GitHub issue up on here, which has today's agenda.
John Mertic: And also post the agenda here in the chat for everyone.
Michael MacIsaac: So we got four items on the
John Mertic: Agenda here. I'm talking about the adding plugins, which I believe we have the new maintain for the adding plugins on the call here, which was really exciting welcome Welter
John Mertic: We also we're going to revisit the terse decompress incubation renewal and see if there's been any movement there and we still have the get have actions for hosted projects. And I think we have a few folks that are in flight with that that
John Mertic: We can get updates and then we'll just go around the room for all the remainder of the hosted projects and see what that looks like.
John Mertic: I guess I Charlie pause, Phil, I don't know if you want to kind of take control and run the run the meeting here for today and I can sit in the background or would you prefer.
phil tully: I would prefer you me nuts in the back. I'd rather sit in the background. Today it's been one of those
phil tully: Run, run, run days.
John Mertic: I
John Mertic: No worries. No worries. I want to make sure the offer is
Your the chairperson.
John Mertic: No worries.
John Mertic: Um, so let's go ahead and jump into the first item.
John Mertic: Up on the list here for day. Maybe I'll just share my screen.
Michael MacIsaac: So everyone can see the
Michael MacIsaac: agenda that we're speaking to
John Mertic: First item and today's the Adam plugins, which is up for
John Mertic: Graduation or renewal. We are excited to have on the phone here, Walter church who has stepped forward to take over that project.
John Mertic: I'm Walter. I don't know if you want to maybe say a few words here.
Walter Church: Hello everybody, my name bolted church. I guess I'm excited to, kind of, you know, join the during the project and take over for the atom editor.
phil tully: Welcome
John Mertic: Definitely. Welcome. Welcome, and thank you very much for stepping forward. I know you're sort of new to it. I don't know if there's any short term or mid term plans you you have is you're looking at this project, or if you're still just kind of knee deep in figuring everything out.
Walter Church: Yeah, so I actually wrote the original project work that john are way used to put into this project. So I guess I'm technically like the original creator, I suppose. So I'm still getting familiar with the new model that john was using for the editor and then the
Walter Church: The steps for publishing updates as the next step. I think I'm looking into
John Mertic: Awesome. Awesome. Well, thank you for stepping forward. Um,
John Mertic: What the sort of the, one of the drivers for this was the incubation renewal for the project.
John Mertic: And I know one of the things that I've heard from the attack was that was sort of one of the big concern areas is whether
John Mertic: They're there would be somebody maintaining it going forward.
John Mertic: I look at the attendees today and I do not think we have enough of a quorum to do the incubation renewal, but I guess I would look towards attack members in attendance, if we if you wanted to pursue a vote to approve the renewal via email or GitHub issue. Where is everyone sit with that.
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): I second that. I think that's a good idea.
phil tully: Okay, that's fine.
Okay.
Michael MacIsaac: All right, well, I will
John Mertic: Get that going via email in the background. And again welcome Walter and thank you.
Michael MacIsaac: Yes, thank you all. Awesome.
John Mertic: Next up on the list here is the term decompress incubation renewal um I think Peter, I know you had been engaged trying to you know get word of what's going on there. I know Ingo you had been engaged in the past. I'm trying to see if
John Mertic: either of you have any updates.
Ingo Adlung: Well I hey, this isn't go so I personally couldn't get any response so i i send some nagging males friendly nachos and not so frankly, but couldn't get a response. So
Ingo Adlung: Sorry, my hands in the air.
John Mertic: We appreciate it and go, and Peter, I don't know. I didn't see any I saw your email, but I didn't see any response. I don't know if you got anything
John Mertic: But Peter you're on mute. I don't know.
Michael MacIsaac: The old double mute.
Peter Fandel: Trick no no responses.
Peter Fandel: So DOESN'T LOOK LIKE THIS IS GOING ANYWHERE. Okay.
Peter Fandel: Um,
John Mertic: I do know I did see a message in Slack. Somebody had some issues with it.
Peter Fandel: Yeah, the other side we need right
Peter Fandel: Yeah, yeah, there were there were, there was somebody that did post an issue. So that's
John Mertic: It.
Peter Fandel: There's nothing to say that something that is emeritus can't be revived when when the right people come forward. Right. Exactly. Yeah. If somebody wants to come forward.
John Mertic: At some point and revive it that's that's totally acceptable.
John Mertic: So I guess for the tech members in attendance and Phil, what are your, what are your thoughts here if moving forward.
Peter Fandel: It goes Emeritus, right, I mean, no one there.
Peter Fandel: Is no if there's no one
phil tully: There's no one touching it. No one.
phil tully: Did you know it's got to it. We can't just it's active. It's really not. Yeah, yeah.
John Mertic: No, it's very fair.
John Mertic: All right. Again, we don't have the quorum, but
Peter Fandel: We can conduct. This is about via email to get this approved to move to America stacks.
John Mertic: Cool. Any other questions or comments or discussion on that.
Okay.
Peter Fandel: Next,
John Mertic: Up on the list here is the GitHub.
John Mertic: Actions for
John Mertic: Om P hosted projects.
Um,
John Mertic: From my understanding here. A lot of this is
John Mertic: In flight I know Mike, you're actively you're kind of actively working in the field long side of things. I don't know if you have any updates on how that's going
Mike Friesenegger: Yeah, well I just came back from vacation.
Mike Friesenegger: Yesterday, so
Mike Friesenegger: I was catching up on email and it looks like the the person, Don, Ma, it has been working with you on some GitHub security related things. And the last thing I saw was
Mike Friesenegger: That you and he we're going to have a cold setup. I think either this morning, or yesterday morning.
Mike Friesenegger: To try and work through that. So that's the last I saw it. Basically, it's kind of working, but there were some security related keys that needed to be added into GitHub, to be able to allow get up actions to do its work.
Len Santalucia: Do you have DID YOU HAVE THAT CALL with them.
John Mertic: Yeah, yeah. I had that I think we were running into a GitHub limitation were
John Mertic: So good hands as the ability to store secrets encrypted as a part of the organizational or or repository settings you can store it in either level.
John Mertic: And I think the challenge we're running into is there's a limitation and GitHub, that if an action is kicked off.
John Mertic: From
John Mertic: a pull request coming from a
John Mertic: Fork. It doesn't let you leverage those secrets for some reason. So I think we had identified that as the issue and I think Don law was going to do some investigation into that. I don't know if any. I know you are also working on the Viacom, and I don't know if you've heard anything
From him on that front.
Vincent Terrone: No, I think he's good on our side. He can
Vincent Terrone: Come in, without, without any issue.
Vincent Terrone: It's just a matter of now getting getting hub actions to use our jump box, but I don't think he's up to that point yet he's really just stuck in I guess they could have action part of it.
John Mertic: Yeah, that's my understanding as well.
Mike Friesenegger: So we'll keep discussing it during the day long project and will will will update on the next
Len Santalucia: Tech meeting.
Mike Friesenegger: How things are progressing.
Len Santalucia: From a long perspective. Awesome.
John Mertic: Awesome. And I think probably separately is also down that path to Vinnie. I don't know if they've where their progress is that
Vincent Terrone: Um, he's working. He's all set out. He doesn't have any issues.
Vincent Terrone: And I don't I don't I think he just said he gave us a status because we used to have a call today and he said that he's just been swamped with real work and that we're going to push you off till next week to get a status.
Awesome.
John Mertic: Awesome. And I see a note on the the bug here that and you just tag just wanted to share. There's been worked on GitHub action Z support across different teams across the files cross compile support has been ported by the IBM
John Mertic: Linux on the open source porting team initial work to build give actions with motto is done.
John Mertic: Yeah, I don't. I think it'd be kind of interesting to see how those efforts are coming together because it sounds like
John Mertic: Most of the connections at least might be together. I don't know.
John Mertic: I don't know, David. So David Ellison me to put you on the spot. I see you on the phone here. I don't know if you have any insight into those comments or Elizabeth
David Edelsohn: No, no specific info for me.
No.
Okay.
John Mertic: Well, we'll take it at face value, then
John Mertic: Cool. Any other questions on
That topic.
Mike Friesenegger: So that this is my present the the polycephalum project is using GitHub actions and it sounds like they may be having success. They may. Did I understand that incorrectly or
Mike Friesenegger: Vinnie or are you still waiting to get some feedback I
Vincent Terrone: Know he we I was just saying we usually do a status meeting today and he was tied up, he asked us to move it. Got it.
Len Santalucia: Okay.
Mike Friesenegger: Yeah, it might be might be worthwhile if he
Mike Friesenegger: If the leader of the Polish awfully project is able to get something working maybe invite him to are failing called so so he can show it off. That's an idea.
Vincent Terrone: Yeah, that would be good. Okay.
John Mertic: And if you
John Mertic: Are. It sounds like you both are running into the same issues. We probably
John Mertic: could pull in Ponyo from the release engineering team he might have some ideas of how to work around
Len Santalucia: Some of this as well.
Vincent Terrone: Okay, that's good.
Len Santalucia: Hey john. Can you help us get people on your team at foundation
Len Santalucia: were asking about Jenkins way in the beginning.
Len Santalucia: Yeah.
Len Santalucia: Us. We like them to.
Len Santalucia: Actually use it once it's set up final it's almost done with Jerry. So, if I remember correctly, there was a few guys that said Jenkins was important to have from that I
Len Santalucia: Remember,
John Mertic: Yeah, I think I remember some of the discussion there maybe it might make sense just kind of pull the parties together and have just a general checkpoint call on where the progress is. I think that's a good idea.
John Mertic: Maybe, maybe as a follow up, I can you know suggest such a call and whoever from the projects that are in this we can participate, is that that kind of sound like where your head's at.
Len Santalucia: Blend. Yeah, exactly. Okay.
Len Santalucia: You know, we're after all the work of setting it up. Now we want to get people actually using it and you know critiquing yet any kind of feedback. I don't care. Good better and different is important.
Len Santalucia: As I'm sure it's the same stuff. So it should be any different.
John Mertic: Definitely, and we want to also make sure we
John Mertic: Can start role if you know if this is a good pattern we can get this rolling out for all projects that they come on board. I know you know we have several projects that could potentially leverage this
Okay.
John Mertic: Any other questions, comments, discussion on that.
John Mertic: Okay. Um, and so we have a fair amount of time this week to do a walk around.
John Mertic: And touch on where we're at with tech projects.
So,
John Mertic: Let's maybe start with our active and then we'll go to our incubating projects. And I don't think we have anybody from the project on the call.
John Mertic: I do know that mentees and working on, there's been some additions happening to that code base, but I don't have anything else to report. I don't know if anybody else does.
John Mertic: Okay um next mentorship, Bob, do you want to
John Mertic: Read the updates.
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): We got about a month and a half for the mentorship for this year to go. So in the next few weeks. I'm going to do a final presentation so that the mentors and mentees understand what they need to do for wrap up.
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): Second step, and had gone out. We found that there's been some problems getting the money to
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): You know some of the
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): More remote students. I guess the banks aren't because a coven are kind of shut down and they're not transferring the money as quickly. So it's been two, three weeks for money to get transferred
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): I think
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): So, so things are going pretty well. One of the things that we've we've gotten some requests for
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): Doing projects over the next fiscal academic year. We got Western University from Ontario. I think it's Ontario or in Toronto. They're looking for an a project. And what we'd like to do is we'd like to get a list of projects that people are interested in
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): Our PROJECTS SOME OF THE OPEN mainframe projects are interested in getting some
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): Kind of free labor here students
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): To help out during the year, but we need to identify that and actually Western University is looking for somebody in
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): A project in short order. They've got a few students there. They think, I don't know if they could use more than one, but they certainly are pushing hard for a project. So if anyone's got a project that they could come up with
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): In short order here. We really appreciate it. Because it's important to get these universities active
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): And what we'd like to do is start collecting
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): Projects so that we have a kind of
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): A list of potential projects in the future. So we don't have to kind of last minute kind of started looking for projects.
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): So this year is ending. We're going to be beginning next year projects. Pretty soon collecting them. So if anyone's got a project or idea of where we can get a project for Western please let me know.
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): So I'll be sending up a meeting with the mentors and mentees probably in the next few weeks of the semester starting so it's
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): Next week, so you know I'm kind of busy, but I love. One of the things that the mentees going to have to do is come up with a video presentation on their project. So I want to give them enough lead time so that they can know what to do because that's due at the end of September.
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): That's it for me unless someone's got a project they want to volunteer.
Alex Kim: Hey Bob Salix are you think you just
Len Santalucia: Have a
Alex Kim: Question. The end of the project presentation will
Alex Kim: Get be also part of the open mainframe product summit, so the agenda.
Alex Kim: We have a session for me.
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): Yeah, I'm
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): I don't know if we're going to get them in time, you know, because I think they're due on the 31st and the summit open mainframe summit is
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): On the 16th, we can see if we actually, if I can get a meeting together quickly. There might be possibility that we could get some or all of them done by then I'll, I'll put that on my things to do.
John Mertic: And Bob. One other thing that we're
John Mertic: I think we have pretty much
John Mertic: secured his time at the open source summit Europe virtual event at the end of October. It's the one that the students had typically went to in the past when it was in person, but we've I think we've secured.
John Mertic: Time as a part of the open mainframe project mini Summit for them to present as well. So, you know, if you have some that are able to present early. Great. And then, if not, then we can catch them.
John Mertic: We can catch the full length of them at that
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): Well be good to get them as much exposure as possible. And the idea of the video presentations is is that it's not a one time deal because what we're gonna do is we're going to post them up.
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): Hopefully on our website so that the students have exposure for, you know, until the next group comes in. So
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): I think
Ingo Adlung: Hey, Bob. This is English, so I will reach out to my team song, can you can you can you just quickly and say again from win to win this would run
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): The projects for the academic for like Western
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): Yeah, yeah, it would. I'm not really sure. It's like, for instance, if it's a capstone like mine, it would run two semesters, but I'm not sure I'd have to read the email. Again, I'll get back to you and go to to let you know. But I it's either a semester to semester project. They're looking for
Ingo Adlung: Okay, great. Thank you.
John Mertic: And for any of our hosted projects. This is also a great opportunity.
Len Santalucia: To get folks.
John Mertic: To get new students and new competitors engaged so
John Mertic: Yeah, make maybe with FAIL ALONG or
John Mertic: You know, Peter, maybe this might be something interesting for this project as well.
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): What's a good way to recruit people into your project because we've had success with students getting on these projects and then staying with the open source after the fact. I think Linux alpine is one that was developed by a mentee. And he actually kept it going and now
An IBM employee.
Ingo Adlung: Oh, what's this one.
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): Yeah yeah
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): You started out as a
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): Open mainframe Linux.
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): mint tea, that's how we started.
Ingo Adlung: Oh, yeah.
Ingo Adlung: One is a smart guy.
Ingo Adlung: We need more of those.
John Mertic: This wasn't the best way to find them.
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): This is what this program is all about mining resources.
Yeah.
John Mertic: Awesome. Any other questions on the mentorship program.
Matt Hogstrom: Yeah, actually I had one john I maybe I'm not sure if this is the right time, but I'll try it. Hey, it was a question actually to Alex, I can't remember the name of the project that you were mentoring, but it had to do with getting RMS data.
Matt Hogstrom: Off of
Matt Hogstrom: The sea machine converting it to XML and then doing some graphing of it.
Matt Hogstrom: I went out and looked at the project and looks like it's been going for quite some time, but there were no commits to source code.
Matt Hogstrom: Oh, it's curious where they were actually doing the work. So
Alex Kim: Yeah. Hi, Matt, thank you. So we just temporarily name as a zebra.
Alex Kim: It's not official name.
Alex Kim: And I'm using probably it for now because I'm you want to clean up the code. It was part of the mentorship program so
Alex Kim: There were like a you know a lot of code update course, he's a he's still a student is actually medical students in Nigeria, so he's learning to code. And I said, it's been very good. I think we are doing code review and commit to the BU MP mentorship program good soon on
Alex Kim: A VISIT if you interested in. We can give you the GitHub access. So today, you can take a look
Matt Hogstrom: If you could, that would be great. There are some questions caught up around internally about it and I just couldn't get a sense of what actually had been done or what it looked like so.
Alex Kim: For sure. I think give you the link and also he he he generated great documentation around it, too.
Matt Hogstrom: Yeah, I saw the documentation was out there that was that was really great. And we
Matt Hogstrom: Look at the source code and it was empty. So yeah, if you could provide access that would be excellent.
Alex Kim: Sure, I'll send you an email right away. Thank you.
Matt Hogstrom: All right, thank you. Alex here.
John Mertic: Awesome awesome and Matt a great place for that sort of question. So, so no worries there whatsoever.
John Mertic: Anything else on the mentorship program.
John Mertic: Alright, Zoe, um,
John Mertic: Peter, I keep looking at you put on the spot. I don't know if you want to talk about this.
Peter Fandel: And only that it continues to to get stronger and stronger and going great.
John Mertic: Indeed it does. I think they just had another review the cadence released yesterday.
Peter Fandel: I believe the day before 114 is released yesterday.
Peter Fandel: Yep.
John Mertic: Cool, yeah. Things are rockin and rollin there. Any questions for anybody, or any other. Anybody else have any feedback on Zoe that they would want to share
John Mertic: All right, let's roll into incubation projects will go also in alphabetical order. Emma tues I think I see you, Joe out there. And yeah, the other Joe both Joe's
Joe Bostian: Um, okay. So we're continuing to build out some content out there. We've actually spent a lot of time doing containerized workloads, but just in the last month or so I've created a new repo for iOS native
Joe Bostian: Applications and information to help people that want to do development on the platform so
Joe Bostian: There are two new container Docker file recipes out there now that that had been pushed that have been pushed up or merged in from a pull request and
Joe Bostian: we've iterated a few times to freshen up some of the other Docker file recipes that are out there and Linux container repo on the Z iOS native side. Um, I wanted to put some information. I put some information out there just explaining
Joe Bostian: Things you know to the new developer to the platform, things like, you know, we're an ASCII platform on Z OS. We're not an ASCII platform on the Linux side.
Joe Bostian: Both platforms, you know, share big Indian bite order and just give sort of all of that kind of introductory information to developers who maybe
Joe Bostian: Have a background, you know, as developers, but are new to the platform. So we're continuing to push that kind of content out there and trying to get that basic knowledge of built up over time.
John Mertic: Awesome awesome sounds a great progress and I'll note here for the next meeting.
John Mertic: Of the tack.
Len Santalucia: The attacking
John Mertic: Will be able to
John Mertic: Consider the incubation renewal for the project as you're getting towards that one year mark here at the beginning of September. Okay.
John Mertic: Any questions or
John Mertic: Other comments in the group.
John Mertic: Awesome. Thank you. I'm Walter will skip past you for the Adam language since you already have chimed in, if that's okay.
Walter Church: Yeah, that's good thing. Awesome.
John Mertic: Uh, let's go to the cobalt Programming course. I don't know if we have anybody on the line.
Len Santalucia: With that project that could present
John Mertic: See anybody else. I don't see any hands coming up either
John Mertic: All right, we'll keep moving.
John Mertic: Education Project. I think I see a few folks from that team on the call.
Guilherme Cartier: Alright, so this is Cartier here. So yes, in the past few months, we've been working a lot internally trying to to come up with the go to market strategy for this project.
Guilherme Cartier: Since it and involves
Guilherme Cartier: The collaboration between IBM and Broadcom there's still a lot of work that needs to be done internally on both IBM and Broadcom so we've been keeping some, some of those meetings privately.
Guilherme Cartier: But we do have
Guilherme Cartier: Today, a meeting just after this stack meeting.
Guilherme Cartier: We will be having every month.
Guilherme Cartier: At least one public meeting to the community to anyone who's interesting and getting more involved with this project and and chipping in and kind of understanding where we are at. Then, and where we can go
Guilherme Cartier: So every month, we will have a meeting just probably just after the tech meeting. So every
Guilherme Cartier: Thursday I think on a demo where we have the tech meeting. So that's basically it for the project right now, we're still we're still basically working on on this. Go to Market Strategy.
John Mertic: Awesome. Awesome. Thank you. Thank you so much here and I'm going to put the link to that meeting in the chat for everybody, if that's okay.
Guilherme Cartier: Yeah, absolutely.
John Mertic: Hopefully, have the right
John Mertic: Yeah hopefully that's the right WebEx. I just tried to pull it up.
Guilherme Cartier: Yeah, it is. Yeah, I need to figure out, zoom, but, but, no worries.
John Mertic: No worries. No worries, will help get you going there.
John Mertic: Um, thank you for that update. Any questions from the group.
John Mertic: Awesome a fail on I know Mike you briefly talked about the infrastructure. I don't know if there's anything else you wanted to share
Mike Friesenegger: Yeah, just to two other things very quickly. One is I think this week you presented to the on p governing board and I provided a current goal and a future goal.
Mike Friesenegger: The current goal is absolutely working on that a CI CD and you know the taking advantage of the the hardware that might come infinity is donating for not only CI CD, but also environment for developers to contribute to fail long and then the future goal of of
Mike Friesenegger: Graduating from an incubator.
Len Santalucia: Project to
Mike Friesenegger: To a fully graduated and when project that's that's our future will after we get this done. So that's number one. And then the second one is only up some it's right around the corner. So we need to get our presentations prepped and delivered. I think by the end of next week.
Mike Friesenegger: Our recordings done. I'm sorry, the recordings of our sessions I should be more specific.
John Mertic: Awesome. Yes, yes. And that's a thank you for the reminder plug their of the open mainframe summit, it is coming up quickly here, a little over a month away.
John Mertic: You know, definitely. If you haven't had this on your radar. Please make sure it is. We have just about all of our projects.
John Mertic: Presenting in some capacity or another, which is really exciting. And we're going to have a number of announcements on some of the new projects and other items as well. And a lot of great talks Ross mores keynote and Greg go out coach and Zeppelin, amongst others, I put a link in the chat.
John Mertic: It should be a great event. It's a $50 registration.
John Mertic: So we keep also try to keep the cross really low there to help everybody attend as much as possible so
Joe Devlin: Are you using the same AV company the chairs using
John Mertic: We are not
John Mertic: So that is a very good call.
John Mertic: We are
John Mertic: So we're actually using a platform called meeting play
John Mertic: Which we have actually
John Mertic: I don't know.
John Mertic: If you all are aware when our back when coven 19 hit our entire event staff came off the road and spent probably about six weeks researching every single platform online platform available.
John Mertic: And came with a lot of recommendations and actually even put those out on a blog post, we actually basically open sourced all of our findings.
John Mertic: So the, the one that they'd recommend for the size of that we were looking at was meeting play. We've talked with a lot of we've used it already. For a few events and had some pretty good success. I believe Susa con was run on reading play and they were really happy with it.
John Mertic: So overall, we, we are not anticipating any of the issues, seeing there although that is definitely unfortunately what happened with Sharon.
John Mertic: I think they're trying to work on what next steps looks likes for that.
John Mertic: So, so, yeah, we are using a different platform.
John Mertic: Um, and actually make your other comment. They reminded me of just a touch point from the governing board is this makes shared the governing board meets quarterly and we try to share a nice update of where all the projects are there's often a ton of interest in governing board members.
John Mertic: I think I generally heard a lot of positive comments, although we are we are fortunate to have the chairperson on the phone of lead singer. He has lent. I don't know if there is
John Mertic: Any specific feedback that you would want to share that the governing board indicated around some of our hosted projects.
Len Santalucia: Everybody is very pleased with them the progress for the most part, has been
Len Santalucia: Very, very good.
Len Santalucia: The volunteers that are behind them.
Len Santalucia: Are doing an excellent job in conducting the sessions every other week or weekly whenever they're conducted
Len Santalucia: And
Len Santalucia: For the most part, the feedback is all been just
Len Santalucia: Very, very good, fantastic feedback.
All the way around the whole
Len Santalucia: Open mainframe project in general. So
Len Santalucia: And we did talk a little bit about these concerns that people were just brought up about the mainframe project summit coming up and the right platform and so on.
Len Santalucia: And we are fortunate to have a team, the marketing team behind it that did the work that they did and selecting it i'll tell you they did a very good job and we we will not have any problems.
Len Santalucia: There is a
Len Santalucia: work to do to improve our enrollments. But we believe that those enrollments kind of happen about two or so weeks before anyway.
Len Santalucia: And with the fee being only $50 for anybody and $15 for academia, we shouldn't have a problem with that. And our sponsorships are rolling in. Very good, especially are very large ones.
Len Santalucia: Which is excellent. So we have a tiny gap right john that we want to try to close in. And so we could be completely neutral with any money out of our pockets for the summit. I mean, yeah, we're trying
John Mertic: To
Len Santalucia: Do the project did have to do
John Mertic: Some forward investment to cover some of the costs here.
Len Santalucia: That much, but it's still good. If we can get down, get that covered with more attendees signing up and maybe one or two more sponsors even small ones would be fine. So
Len Santalucia: anything anybody on the team here can help with that. It's a great venue. I'm telling you there there's there's going to be a lot of people looking at this a lot different ways. So it's great exposure from all walks of life, coming to attend this IBM and Broadcom and
Len Santalucia: Racket, and many of us here on the phone or are driving and reminding people about it. I think it's going to be very good. So let's get a few more sponsors.
Len Santalucia: That we can so we get a little bit more money just to close that gap. So we keep our budget.
Len Santalucia: as solid as it is.
Len Santalucia: We've. That's one thing about this group, we have a pretty nice.
Len Santalucia: Salad budget.
Len Santalucia: Will always can improve
Len Santalucia: So that's some of my comments john I'll give it back to you. Thank you, everybody. Awesome. Awesome. Thank you. And for
John Mertic: A lot of that insight there. Yeah, so definitely go check that out the schedule we pushed out live about two weeks ago.
John Mertic: And yeah, just really, really great talks we were that group is fortunate the program committee who does all the votes for talks I don't get to do votes.
John Mertic: You know folks like Glenn who are part of the program committee do and they had a hard task they had over 60 talks that they had to narrow down
John Mertic: For I think the less than 30 slots. We had available. And they did a fantastic job. So definitely go check that out. And if you're part of an organization that hasn't considered sponsorship happy to discuss some of those options as well.
Len Santalucia: AND JOHN I sent a couple of suggestions for substituting for the one that had a sudden drop out. So you're looking for a response on those as possible. Yep.
Len Santalucia: Yep will
John Mertic: I think that was where I think that was leading a little bit of that. So I'll ping her and make sure she's on that.
Len Santalucia: Yes, please.
John Mertic: Alright, shifting back now to project updates. Sorry for the the break from our normal programming Geneva ers. I think we have kip on the line in the background.
Kip Twitchell: I'm here. Can you hear me.
Yes.
Kip Twitchell: So we had our first a TS see meeting on Tuesday night.
Kip Twitchell: And have been driving hard. We have released our first small set of of service code and have started a prototype PLC work on
Kip Twitchell: Will give a better sense of Geneva ERS, and it's integrate potential relationship and integration with spark as we kind of talked about on the tech meeting last month.
Kip Twitchell: As we introduced Jeannie VRS to you. We have two contributors that are non IBM people that are going to be added as competitors.
Kip Twitchell: Immediately we had to existing IBM product customers the IBM product is called safir that we have open sourced, and they're supportive of own P project and and they both joined our TASC meeting last week, so
Kip Twitchell: The thing that we were looking for. And I mentioned to john the other day is where we're now have people ready to contribute to our documentation and our installation guide.
Kip Twitchell: For making the process a bit more simple we're in need of a shared environment to be able to to work outside of the existing development firewalls for
Kip Twitchell: For running Jeannie VRS so that's one of our first first step. So we've got overcome in and progressing our project, which is good. That's exactly that. That shows progress, it's a good problem to have.
Kip Twitchell: So we're, we're glad to have that going, I don't know john. Should I add anything else here quite up to speed on what we're doing.
John Mertic: Yeah, no, no. I think this is a really helpful update for the group. And yeah, they had a really great TASC meeting Tuesday night. I think there's close to 30 people on the call, if I'm not mistaken. Right. Yeah. So yeah, really, really nice group there. And yeah, they're definitely
Len Santalucia: Often running and
John Mertic: You know, the next big step is getting some see
Infrastructure
John Mertic: Available for some of their CI CD and other development. So probably definitely want to get you plugged into some of the GitHub actions discussions as well.
John Mertic: Right.
Kip Twitchell: We know what we need to do so glad to be on board. Thanks for everybody support the enthusiasms accelerated our work quite a bit. So I'm glad to join you.
John Mertic: Awesome, any questions from the group.
John Mertic: Or other feedback.
John Mertic: Okay.
John Mertic: We do not have a
John Mertic: Poly separately represented today from what I can tell, so maybe we'll just skip past that one.
John Mertic: I'm Elizabeth the software discovery tool.
John Mertic: And if you have any updates.
Elizabeth Joseph: Hey, so we're getting off to a very slow start, but I'm getting ready to send over my proposal to the list of how we want to structure the code repositories probably gonna end up with two of them. But again, it's just taking this time I should get that email out soon, though.
Elizabeth Joseph: But thank you john for for getting all the rest of the project resources set up for us that's been a huge help. As I've been reaching out to people on I had been linking our proposal.
Elizabeth Joseph: From back in like April. But now that I have a logo and a GitHub repo actually have something to point them to. So that's a huge help.
Elizabeth Joseph: That's it, really.
John Mertic: Awesome.
Len Santalucia: Awesome. Cool. Yeah.
Len Santalucia: Um,
John Mertic: And I don't know if you have any public meetings scheduled at this point.
Elizabeth Joseph: You're still TBD. Yeah. We need, we need to schedule one for next month, probably, but I, I'll get the email first and get that ready. Awesome.
John Mertic: Awesome. Any questions for the group or feedback.
Okay.
John Mertic: We already hit church decompress and sorrow. My did get the regrets from here and unable to join today. I don't know if anybody else in the phone has been participating those calls or has any feedback on where that project is
John Mertic: Well, that is all the items that were on the agenda for today. I don't know if anybody has any additional things. We have a few more. We have a 10 minutes here if anybody has anything else they would want to discuss during today's call.
phil tully: Sounds like a quiet Colt, it's just
John Mertic: It does, it does.
John Mertic: The last couple months where we were, you know, running over so getting everybody in Britain.
Ingo Adlung: JOHN If you had this isn't going to you had two more minutes at the end.
Ingo Adlung: Just between the two of us.
Ingo Adlung: Don't need to bother the rest of the team.
John Mertic: Yeah yeah
John Mertic: Um, yeah, maybe we can sync off.
Len Santalucia: I can just ping over
John Mertic: A zoom or something we can chat real quick.
John Mertic: Anybody else have anything for today, or do we
phil tully: Think we can close it out today.
John Mertic: Awesome. Well, everyone gets an 11 minutes of their time back. Thank you all very much. Our next meeting is
Peter Fandel: Going to look at the calendar.
John Mertic: Here because I'm wondering if it's the same week as open mainframe so that we need to move it around. It is. It's the 10th. So, it is the week before open mainframe summit.
John Mertic: So look forward to that.
John Mertic: And definitely
John Mertic: If you haven't signed up for the summit, share it with your networks customers, partners, friends and colleagues.
John Mertic: And we'll look forward to talking, then
phil tully: Have a good day everyone.
Peter Fandel: Thank you. Take care everybody take care
Len Santalucia: Bye Bye bye.